Web Checkout (KPG-2)¶
This documentation details the process of implementing the latest e-Payment Checkout platform released by Khalti.

How it works?¶
User visits the merchant's website to make some purchase
A unique purchase_order_id is generated at merchant's system
Payment request is made to Khalti providing the purchase_order_id, amount in paisa and return_url
User is redirected to the epayment portal (eg. https://pay.khalti.com)
After payment is made by the user, a successful callback is made to the return_url
The merchant website can optionally confirm the payment received
The merchant website then proceeds other steps after payment confirmation
Getting Started¶
There is no special installation plugin or SDK required for this provided you are able to make a POST request from your web application. However, we shall come up with handy plugins in coming days.

Tip

A merchant account is required for integration.

Access Information

For Sandbox Access

Signup from here as a merchant.

Please use 987654 as login OTP for sandbox env.

For Production Access

Please visit here

Test Credentials for sandbox environment

Test Khalti ID for 9800000000 9800000001 9800000002 9800000003 9800000004 9800000005

Test MPIN 1111

Test OTP 987654

Demo Flow for Checkout

Pay with Khalti

API Authorization¶
HTTP Authorization for api requests is done using Auth Keys. Auth Key must be passed in the header for authorization in the following format

{
    "Authorization": "Key <LIVE_SECRET_KEY>"  
}  
Tip

Use live_secret_key from test-admin.khalti.com during sandbox testing and use live_secret_key from admin.khalti.com for production environments.

API Endpoints¶
API Endpoints

Sandbox

https://dev.khalti.com/api/v2/

Production

https://khalti.com/api/v2/

Initiating a Payment request¶
Every payment request should be first initiated from the merchant as a server side POST request. Upon success, a unique request identifier is provided called pidx that should be used for any future references

URL	Method	Authorization	Format
/epayment/initiate/	POST	Required	application/json
JSON Payload Details¶
Field	Required	Description
return_url	Yes	
Landing page after the transaction.
Field must contain a URL.
website_url	Yes	
The URL of the website.
Field must contain a URL.
amount	Yes	
Total payable amount excluding the service charge.
Amount must be passed in Paisa
purchase_order_id	Yes	Unique identifier for the transaction generated by merchant
purchase_order_name	Yes	This is the name of the product.
customer_info	No	This field represents to whom the txn is going to be billed to.
amount_breakdown	No	Any number of labels and amounts can be passed but the sum of amount_breakdown.amount mount be equal to amount.
product_details	No	No of set is unlimited
Sample Request Payload¶
{
  "return_url": "https://example.com/payment/",
  "website_url": "https://example.com/",
  "amount": 1300,
  "purchase_order_id": "test12",
  "purchase_order_name": "test",
  "customer_info": {
      "name": "Khalti Bahadur",
      "email": "example@gmail.com",
      "phone": "9800000123"
  },
  "amount_breakdown": [
      {
          "label": "Mark Price",
          "amount": 1000
      },
      {
          "label": "VAT",
          "amount": 300
      }
  ],
  "product_details": [
      {
          "identity": "1234567890",
          "name": "Khalti logo",
          "total_price": 1300,
          "quantity": 1,
   "unit_price": 1300
      }
  ],
  "merchant_username": "merchant_name",
  "merchant_extra": "merchant_extra"
}
Additionally Configuration also accepts attribute starting with merchant_ that can be used to pass additional (meta) data.
merchant_name: This is merchant name

merchant_extra: This is extra data

The additional data starting with merchant_ is returned in success response payload.

Examples


cURL
php
python
C#
NodeJs
curl --location 'https://dev.khalti.com/api/v2/epayment/initiate/' \
--header 'Authorization: key 05bf95cc57244045b8df5fad06748dab' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
"return_url": "http://example.com/",
"website_url": "http://example.com/",
"amount": "1000",
"purchase_order_id": "Ordwer01",
"purchase_order_name": "Test",
"customer_info": {
    "name": "Test Bahadur",
    "email": "test@khalti.com",
    "phone": "9800000001"
}
}'

Success Response

    {
        "pidx": "bZQLD9wRVWo4CdESSfuSsB",
        "payment_url": "https://test-pay.khalti.com/?pidx=bZQLD9wRVWo4CdESSfuSsB",
        "expires_at": "2023-05-25T16:26:16.471649+05:45",
        "expires_in": 1800
    }
After getting the success response, the user should be redirected to the payment_url obtained in the success response.

Error Responses¶
return_url is blank

{
    "return_url": [
        "This field may not be blank."
    ],
    "error_key": "validation_error"
}
return_url is invalid

{
    "return_url": [
        "Enter a valid URL."
    ],
    "error_key": "validation_error"
}
website_url is blank

{
    "website_url": [
        "This field may not be blank."
    ],
    "error_key": "validation_error"
}
website_url is invalid

{
    "website_url": [
        "Enter a valid URL."
    ],
    "error_key": "validation_error"
}
Amount is less than 10

{
    "amount": [
        "Amount should be greater than Rs. 10, that is 1000 paisa."
    ],
    "error_key": "validation_error"
}
Amount is invalid

{
    "amount": [
        "A valid integer is required."
    ],
    "error_key": "validation_error"
}
purchase_order_id is blank

{
    "purchase_order_id": [
        "This field may not be blank."
    ],
    "error_key": "validation_error"
}
purchase_order_name is blank

{
    "purchase_order_name": [
        "This field may not be blank."
    ],
    "error_key": "validation_error"
}
Amount breakdown doesn't total to the amount passed

{
    "amount": [
        "Amount Breakdown mismatch."
    ],
    "error_key": "validation_error"
}
Payment Success Callback¶
After the user completes the payment, the success response is obtained in the return URL specified during payment initiate. Sample of success response return URL.

The callback url return_url should support GET method
User shall be redirected to the return_url with following parameters for confirmation
pidx - The initial payment identifier
status - Status of the transaction
Completed - Transaction is success
Pending - Transaction is in pending state, request for lookup API.
User canceled - Transaction has been canceled by user.
transaction_id - The transaction identifier at Khalti
tidx - Same value as transaction id
amount - Amount paid in paisa
mobile - Payer KHALTI ID
purchase_order_id - The initial purchase_order_id provided during payment initiate
purchase_order_name - The initial purchase_order_name provided during payment initiate
total_amount - Same value as amount
There is no further step required to complete the payment, however merchant can process with their own validation and confirmation steps if required
It's recommended that during implementation, payment lookup API is checked for confirmation after the redirect callback is received
Sample Callback Request¶
Success transaction callback

http://example.com/?pidx=bZQLD9wRVWo4CdESSfuSsB
&txnId=4H7AhoXDJWg5WjrcPT9ixW
&amount=1000
&total_amount=1000
&status=Completed
&mobile=98XXXXX904
&tidx=4H7AhoXDJWg5WjrcPT9ixW
&purchase_order_id=test12
&purchase_order_name=test
&transaction_id=4H7AhoXDJWg5WjrcPT9ixW
Canceled transaction callback

http://example.com/?pidx=bZQLD9wRVWo4CdESSfuSsB
&transaction_id=
&tidx=
&amount=1000
&total_amount=1000
&mobile=
&status=User canceled
&purchase_order_id=test12
&purchase_order_name=test
Important

Please use the lookup API for the final validation of the transaction.
Khalti payment link expires in 60 minutes in production (default).
Payment Verification (Lookup)¶
After a callback is received, You can use the pidx provided earlier, to lookup and reassure the payment status.

URL	Method	Authorization	Format
/epayment/lookup/	POST	Required	application/json
Request Data¶
{
   "pidx": "HT6o6PEZRWFJ5ygavzHWd5"
}
Success Response¶
{
   "pidx": "HT6o6PEZRWFJ5ygavzHWd5",
   "total_amount": 1000,
   "status": "Completed",
   "transaction_id": "GFq9PFS7b2iYvL8Lir9oXe",
   "fee": 0,
   "refunded": false
}
Pending Response¶
{
   "pidx": "HT6o6PEZRWFJ5ygavzHWd5",
   "total_amount": 1000,
   "status": "Pending",
   "transaction_id": null,
   "fee": 0,
   "refunded": false
}
Initiated Response¶
{
   "pidx": "HT6o6PEZRWFJ5ygavzHWd5",
   "total_amount": 1000,
   "status": "Initiated",
   "transaction_id": null,
   "fee": 0,
   "refunded": false
}
Refunded Response¶
{
   "pidx": "HT6o6PEZRWFJ5ygavzHWd5",
   "total_amount": 1000,
   "status": "Refunded",
   "transaction_id": "GFq9PFS7b2iYvL8Lir9oXe",
   "fee": 0,
   "refunded": true
}
Expired Response¶
{
   "pidx": "H889Er9gq4j92oCrePrDwf",
   "total_amount": 1000,
   "status": "Expired",
   "transaction_id": null,
   "fee": 0,
   "refunded": false
}
Canceled Response¶
{
   "pidx": "vNTeXkSEaEXK2J4i7cQU6e",
   "total_amount": 1000,
   "status": "User canceled",
   "transaction_id": null,
   "fee": 0,
   "refunded": false
}
Payment Status Code¶
Status	Status Code	
Completed	200	
Pending	200	
Expired	400	
Initiated	200	
Refunded	200	
User canceled	400	
Partially Refunded	200	
Lookup Payload Details¶
Status	Description	
pidx	This is the payment id of the transaction.	
total_amount	This is the total amount of the transaction	
status	Completed - Transaction is success
Pending - Transaction is failed or is in pending state
Refunded - Transaction has been refunded
Expired - This payment link has expired
User canceled - Transaction has been canceled by the user
Partially refunded - Transaction has been partially refunded by the user	
transaction_id	This is the transaction id for the transaction.
This is the unique identifier.	
fee	The fee that has been set for the merchant.	
refunded	True - The transaction has been refunded.
False - The transaction has not been refunded.	
Lookup status¶
Field	Description	
Completed	Provide service to user.	
Pending	Hold, do not provide service. And contact Khalti team.	
Refunded	Transaction has been refunded to user. Do not provide service.	
Expired	User have not made the payment, Do not provide the service.	
User canceled	User have canceled the payment, Do not provide the service.	
Important

Only the status with Completed must be treated as success.
Status Canceled , Expired , Failed must be treated as failed.
If any negative consequences occur due to incomplete API integration or providing service without checking lookup status, Khalti won’t be accountable for any such losses.
For status other than these, hold the transaction and contact KHALTI team.
Payment link expires in 60 minutes in production.
Generic Errors¶
When an incorrect Authorization key is passed.¶
{
   "detail": "Invalid token.",
   "status_code": 401
}
If incorrect pidx is passed.¶
{
   "detail": "Not found.",
   "error_key": "validation_error"
}
If key is not passed as prefix in Authorization key¶
{
    "detail": "Authentication credentials were not provided.",
    "status_code": 401
}
 